---
id: "zotero-pdf-d8b0e58d59"
title: "Shulgin und Ruckenstein - 2006 - A Protein Molecule in a Mixed Solvent The Preferential Binding Parameter via the Kirkwood-Buff Theo"
source: "Zotero literature pipeline"
source_pdf_markdown: "literature\\Markdown\\Shulgin und Ruckenstein - 2006 - A Protein Molecule in a Mixed Solvent The Preferential Binding Parameter via the Kirkwood-Buff Theo.md"
imported_at: "2026-06-03T13:29:42.001048+00:00"
---

# Shulgin und Ruckenstein - 2006 - A Protein Molecule in a Mixed Solvent The Preferential Binding Parameter via the Kirkwood-Buff Theo

## LLM-ready full-text Markdown

This Markdown file was generated from a PDF. Images were omitted. Extracted figure captions, table text, equations, references, and article body text are retained where the PDF text layer exposed them. The layout was converted into a single reading order for LLM/RAG ingestion.

## Minimal metadata

- **Title:** Shulgin und Ruckenstein - 2006 - A Protein Molecule in a Mixed Solvent The Preferential Binding Parameter via the Kirkwood-Buff Theo
- **Source:** Shulgin und Ruckenstein - 2006 - A Protein Molecule in a Mixed Solvent The Preferential Binding Parameter via the Kirkwood-Buff Theo.pdf
- **Pages:** 4
- **Images:** omitted

Comment to the Editor A Protein Molecule in a Mixed Solvent: The Preferential Binding Parameter via the Kirkwood-Buff Theory In a recent article (Schurr, J. M., D. P. Rangel, and S. R. Aragon. 2005. A contribution to the theory of preferential interaction coefﬁcients. Biophys. J. 89:2258–2276), a detailed derivation of an expression for the preferential binding coefﬁcient via the Kirkwood-Buff theory of solutions was presented. The authors of this Comment (Shulgin, I. L., and E. Ruckenstein. 2005. A protein molecule in an aqueous mixed solvent: ﬂuctuation theory outlook. J. Chem. Phys. 123:054909) also recently established on the basis of the Kirkwood-Buff theory of solutions an equation for the preferential binding of a cosolvent to a protein. There are other publications that relate the preferential binding parameter to the Kirkwood-Buff theory of solutions for protein 1 binary mixed solvents. The expressions derived in the two articles mentioned above are different because the deﬁnitions of the preferential binding parameter are different. However, there are articles in which the deﬁnitions of the preferential binding parameter are the same, but the derived equations that relate the preferential binding parameter to the KirkwoodBuff integrals are different. The goal of this Comment is to examine the various expressions that relate the preferential binding parameter to the Kirkwood-Buff theory. INTRODUCTION An important characteristic of a solution of a protein (component 2) in a mixture water (1) 1 cosolvent (3) is the preferential binding parameter GðmÞ 23 (1–6) GðmÞ 23 [ lim m2/0ð@m3=@m2ÞT;P;m3; (1) where mi is the molality of component i, P is the pressure, T is the absolute temperature, and mi is the chemical potential of component i. The preferential binding parameter can be also deﬁned at a molarity scale by GðcÞ 23 [ lim c2/0ð@c3=@c2ÞT;P;m3; (2) where ci is the molar concentration of component i. It should be emphasized that GðmÞ 23 and GðcÞ 23 are deﬁned at inﬁnite protein dilution. The preferential binding parameter GðmÞ 23 was determined experimentally (5–7) and provides information regarding the interactions between a protein and the components of the mixed solvent. As a rule (1–5), GðmÞ 23 , 0; the protein is preferentially hydrated, for cosolvents such as glycerol, sucrose, etc., which can stabilize at high concentrations the protein structure and preserve its enzymatic activity (3–5), and GðmÞ 23 . 0; the protein is preferentially solvated by cosolvents (such as urea), which can cause protein denaturation. In literature (8) a number of different deﬁnitions of the preferential binding parameter (coefﬁcient) have been employed. They can be connected by thermodynamic relations for ternary mixtures (8). In this Comment the preferential binding parameter will be mostly deﬁned by Eqs. 1 and 2. Because the preferential binding parameter is a meaningful physical quantity, attempts have been made to relate it to a general theory of solutions, such as the Kirkwood-Buff theory of solutions (9). Several authors reported results in this direction (10–17). The authors of this Comment derived the following equation for GðcÞ 23 (16): GðcÞ 23 ¼ c3ðG232G13Þ; (3) where G13 and G23 are the Kirkwood-Buff integrals deﬁned as (9) Gab ¼ Z N 0 ðgab21Þ4pr2dr; (4) where gab is the radial distribution function between species a and b; and r is the distance between the centers of molecules a and b: Equation 3 differs from the expression of GðcÞ 23 employed in Shimizu (10,11): GðcÞ 23 ¼ c3ðG232G12Þ: (5) In a recent article in this journal (17), the Kirkwood-Buff theory of solutions was used to express the preferential binding coefﬁcient G3ð2Þ; deﬁned as G3ð2Þ [ 2 lim c2/0ð@m2=@m3ÞT;P;c2; (6) in terms of the Kirkwood-Buff integrals. It was found (17) that G3ð2Þ ¼ c3ðG232G12Þ: (7) As noted in Schurr et al. (17) the preferential binding coefﬁcient G3ð2Þ deﬁned by Eq. 6 differs from the preferential binding parameter GðcÞ 23 deﬁned by Eq. 2. Submitted September 7, 2005, and accepted for publication October 12, 2005. Address reprint requests to Eli Ruckenstein, Tel.: 716-645-2911, ext. 2214; Fax: 716-645-3822; E-mail: feaeliru@acsu.buffalo.edu.  2006 by the Biophysical Society 0006-3495/06/01/704/04 $2.00 doi: 10.1529/biophysj.105.074112 704 Biophysical Journal Volume 90 January 2006 704–707 However, Eqs. 3 and 5 are different equations even though they are based on the same deﬁnition of the preferential binding parameter and have the same theoretical basis: the Kirkwood-Buff theory of solutions. To make a selection between Eqs. 3 and 5 a simple limiting case, the ideal ternary mixture, will be examined using the traditional thermodynamics, and the results will be compared to those provided by Eqs. 3 and 5. IDEAL TERNARY MIXTURE Let us consider an ideal ternary mixture. According to the deﬁnition of an ideal mixture (18), the activities of the components (ai) are equal to their mol fractions (xi) and their partial molar volumes are equal to those of the pure components (Vi ¼ V0 i ). Because d m3 ¼ @m3 @T   P; c2; c3 dT1 @m3 @P   T; c2; c3 dP1 @m3 @c2   T; P; c3 dc2 1 @m3 @c3   T; P; c2 dc3; (8) one can write for an ideal mixture GðcÞ 23 [ lim c2/0ð@c3=@c2ÞT; P; m3 ¼ 2 lim c2/0 @m3 @c2   T; P; c3 @m3 @c3   T; P; c2 ¼ 2 lim c2/0 @ ln x3 @c2   T; P; c3 @ ln x3 @c3   T; P; c2 : (9) For isothermal-isobaric conditions dc2 ¼ dx2 V 2 x2 V2 @V @x2   x3 dx21 @V @x3   x2 dx3 ! ; (10) and dc3 ¼ dx3 V 2 x3 V2 @V @x2   x3 dx21 @V @x3   x2 dx3 ! ; (11) where V is the molar volume of the ternary mixture. When c3 is a constant, Eqs. 10 and 11 lead to @c2 @x3   c3 ¼ V2x2 @V @x2   x3 2x3 @V @x3   x2 x3V @V @x2   x3 ; (12) and when c2 is a constant, Eqs. 10 and 11 lead to @c3 @x3   c2 ¼ V2x2 @V @x2   x3 2x3 @V @x3   x2 V V2x2 @V @x2   x3 ! : (13) By inserting Eqs. 12 and 13 into Eq. 9 at inﬁnite dilution of component 2, one obtains the following expression for GðcÞ 23 of an ideal ternary mixture: GðcÞ 23 ðidealÞ ¼ c3ðV0 12V0 2Þ: (14) On the other hand, expressions for GðcÞ 23 for an ideal ternary solution can be also derived by combining Eq. 3 or Eq. 5 with the following Kirkwood-Buff integrals for ideal ternary mixtures (16): GðidÞ 12 ¼ kTkðidÞ T 2V0 3c3ðV0 12V0 3Þ2V0 2 (15) GðidÞ 23 ¼ kTkðidÞ T 1V0 1c1ðV0 12V0 3Þ2V0 2 (16) GðidÞ 13 ¼ kTkðidÞ T 2ðc11c3ÞV0 1V0 3; (17) where k is the Boltzmann constant and kT is the isothermal compressibility. Equation 3 leads to GðcÞ 23 ðidealÞ ¼ c3ðV0 12V0 2Þ; (18) whereas Eq. 5 to GðcÞ 23 ðidealÞ ¼ c3ðV0 12V0 3Þ: (19) DISCUSSION One can see that the result obtained on the basis of Eq. 3 (Eq. 18) coincides with Eq. 14 derived from general thermodynamic considerations, whereas that based on Eq. 5 does not. The numerical difference between the two expressions is very large because the molar volume of a protein is, usually, much larger than the molar volume of the cosolvent. Whereas the above discussion involves GðcÞ 23 ; the quantity GðmÞ 23 ; which is usually determined experimentally (2–7), is related to GðcÞ 23 through the equation (1,16) GðcÞ 23 ¼ ð12c3V3ÞGðmÞ 23 2c3VN 2 ; (20) where VN 2 is the partial molar volume of the protein at inﬁnite dilution. VN 2 and V3 can be expressed at inﬁnite dilution of component 2 in terms of the Kirkwood-Buff integrals as follows (19): Comment to the Editor 705 Biophysical Journal 90(2) 704–707 and (9) V3 ¼ 11ðG112G13Þc1 c11c31c1c3ðG111G3322G13Þ : (22) By combining Eqs. 3, 20, 21, and 22, one obtains after some algebra the following simple expression: GðmÞ 23 ¼ c3 c1 1c3ðG232G121G112G13Þ: (23) Whereas G12 and G23 depend on the protein characteristics, G11 and G13 depend only on the characteristics of the protein-free mixed solvent. For usual cosolvents (organic solvents, salts, etc.), one can use the following approximation of Eq. 23 in the dilute cosolvent range: GðmÞ 23  c3ðG232G12Þ: (24) Indeed, jG11j and jG13j are much smaller than the Kirkwood-Buff integrals for the pairs involving the protein (jG12j and jG23j). Table 1 provides their values for the system water (1) 1 lysozyme (2) 1 urea (3) (pH 7.0, 20C). However, when jG11j and jG13j are large, and this occurs when the cosolvent is, for example, a polymer (G13  21000 (cm3/mol) for the system water/polyethylene glycol 2000 at a weight fraction of polyethylene glycol of 0.02 (21)), the complete Eq. 23 should be used. This conclusion is valid for all large cosolvent molecules (polymers, biomolecules, etc.). Let us consider the biochemical equilibrium between inﬁnitely dilute native (N) and denaturated (D) states of a protein in a mixed solvent. The changes of the preferential binding parameters GðcÞ 23 ; GðmÞ 23 ; and G3ð2Þ in this process are given by DGðcÞ 23 ¼ c3ðG23ðDÞ2G23ðNÞÞ ¼ c3DG23 (25) DGðmÞ 23 ¼ c3ðG23ðDÞ2G23ðNÞ2G12ðDÞ1G12ðNÞÞ ¼ c3ðDG232DG12Þ; (26) and DG3ð2Þ ¼ c3ðG23ðDÞ2G23ðNÞ2G12ðDÞ1G12ðNÞÞ ¼ c3ðDG232DG12Þ ¼ DGðmÞ 23 : (27) Equations 25 and 26 follow from Eqs. 3 and 23 by taking into account that G11 and G13 are characteristics of the protein-free mixed solvent at inﬁnite protein dilution. The equilibrium constant K of biochemical equilibrium between inﬁnitely dilute native (N) and denaturated (D) states of a protein in a mixed solvent can be expressed in terms of DGðmÞ 23 (22) @ ln K @ ln a3   T; P; m2 ¼ @m3 @m2  N T; P; m3 2 @m3 @m2  D T; P; m3 @m3 @m3   T; P; m2 ¼ DGðmÞ 23 ; (28) where DGðmÞ 23 can be provided by experiment (23). Using for G12 and G23 expressions from Shulgin and Ruckenstein (16), Eq. 28 can be also rewritten in the form @ ln K @ ln a3   T; P; m2 ¼ c3DJ21 c11c1J111c3 ; (29) where J11 ¼ limx2/0ð@ ln g1=@x1Þx2; J21 ¼ limx2/0ð@ ln g2=@x1Þx2; and gi is the activity coefﬁcient of component i at a mol fraction scale. Let us note that J11 is characteristic of the protein-free mixed solvent at inﬁnite protein dilution. We are indebted to Prof. J. Michael Schurr (Dept. of Chemistry, University of Washington, Seattle, WA) for helpful comments regarding this manuscript and for drawing our attention to the fact that the coefﬁcients G3ð2Þ and GðcÞ 23 are different.

## REFERENCES

1. Casassa, E. F., and H. Eisenberg. 1964. Thermodynamic analysis of multi-component solutions. Adv. Protein Chem. 19:287–395. 2. Noelken, M. E., and S. N. Timasheff. 1967. Preferential solvation of bovine serum albumin in aqueous guanidine hydrochloride. J. Biol. Chem. 1967:5080–5085. 3. Kuntz, I. D., and W. Kauzmann. 1974. Hydration of proteins and polypeptides. Adv. Protein Chem. 28:239–345. 4. Timasheff, S. N. 1993. The control of protein stability and association by weak interactions with water: how do solvents affect these processes? Annu. Rev. Biophys. Biomol. Struct. 22:67–97. 5. Timasheff, S. N. 1998. Control of protein stability and reactions by weakly interacting cosolvents: the simplicity of the complicated. Adv. Protein Chem. 51:355–432. 6. Record, M. T., W. T. Zhang, and C. F. Anderson. 1998. Analysis of effects of salts and uncharged solutes on protein and nucleic acid

### TABLE 1

Numerical values of the Kirkwood-Buff integrals for the water (1) 1 lysozyme (2) 1 urea (3) (pH 7.0, 20C) system c3 (mol/l) jG12j (cm3/mol) (16) jG23j (cm3/mol) (16) jG11j (cm3/mol) (20) jG13j (cm3/mol) (20) 1 10,350 3700 ;16 ;42 3 10,630 6180 ;12 ;45 VN 2 ¼ 11c1ðG112G12Þ1c3ðG332G23Þ1c1c3ð2G12G331G12G132G2 131G13G231G11G332G11G23Þ c11c31c1c3ðG111G3322G13Þ ; (21) 706 Shulgin and Ruckenstein Biophysical Journal 90(2) 704–707 equilibria and processes: a practical guide to recognizing and interpreting polyelectrolyte effects, Hofmeister effects and osmotic effects of salts. Adv. Protein Chem. 51:281–353. 7. Zhang, W. T., M. W. Capp, J. P. Bond, C. F. Anderson, and M. T. Record, Jr. 1996. Thermodynamic characterization of interactions of native bovine serum albumin with highly excluded (glycine betaine) and moderately accumulated (urea) solutes by a novel application of vapor pressure osmometry. Biochemistry. 35:10506–10516. 8. Anderson, C. F., E. S. Courtenay, and M. T. Record, Jr. 2002. Thermodynamic expressions relating different types of preferential interaction coefﬁcients in solutions containing two solute components. J. Phys. Chem. B. 106:418–433. 9. Kirkwood, J. G., and F. P. Buff. 1951. The statistical mechanical theory of solutions. J. Chem. Phys. 19:774–777. 10. Shimizu, S. 2004. Estimating hydration changes upon biomolecular reactions from osmotic stress, high pressure, and preferential interaction coefﬁcients. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA. 101:1195–1199. 11. Shimizu, S. 2004. Estimation of excess solvation numbers of water and cosolvents from preferential interaction and volumetric experiments. J. Chem. Phys. 120:4989–4990. 12. Shimizu, S., and D. J. Smith. 2004. Preferential hydration and the exclusion of cosolvents from protein surfaces. J. Chem. Phys. 121: 1148–1154. 13. Shimizu, S., and C. L. Boon. 2004. The Kirkwood-Buff theory and the effect of cosolvents on biochemical reactions. J. Chem. Phys. 121: 9147–9155. 14. Smith, P. E. 2004. Local chemical potential equalization model for cosolvent effects on biomolecular equilibria. J. Phys. Chem. B. 108: 16271–16278. 15. Smith, P. E. 2004. Cosolvent interactions with biomolecules: relating computer simulation data to experimental thermodynamic data. J. Phys. Chem. B. 108:18716–18724. 16. Shulgin, I. L., and E. Ruckenstein. 2005. A protein molecule in an aqueous mixed solvent: ﬂuctuation theory outlook. J. Chem. Phys. 123:054909. 17. Schurr, J. M., D. P. Rangel, and S. R. Aragon. 2005. A contribution to the theory of preferential interaction coefﬁcients. Biophys. J. 89: 2258–2276. 18. Prausnitz, J. M., R. N. Lichtenthaler, and E. Gomes de Azevedo. 1986. Molecular Thermodynamics of Fluid-Phase Equilibria, 2nd Ed. Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, NJ. 19. Ruckenstein, E., and I. Shulgin. 2001. Entrainer effect in supercritical mixtures. Fluid Phase Equilib. 180:345–359. 20. Chitra, R., and P. E. Smith. 2002. Molecular association in solution: a Kirkwood-Buff analysis of sodium chloride, ammonium sulfate, guanidinium chloride, urea, and 2,2,2-triﬂuoroethanol in water. J. Phys. Chem. B. 106:1491–1500. 21. Vergara, A., L. Paduano, and R. Sartorio. 2002. Kirkwood-Buff integrals for polymer solvent mixtures. Preferential solvation and volumetric analysis in aqueous PEG solutions. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 4:4716–4723. 22. Timasheff, S. N. 1992. Water as ligand: preferential binding and exclusion of denaturants in protein unfolding. Biochemistry. 31: 9857–9864. 23. Timasheff, S. N., and G. Xie. 2003. Preferential interactions of urea with lysozyme and their linkage to protein denaturation. Biophys. Chem. 105:421–448. Ivan L. Shulgin and Eli Ruckenstein Department of Chemical & Biological Engineering State University of New York at Buffalo Amherst, New York Comment to the Editor 707 Biophysical Journal 90(2) 704–707
